# RTPP
\textbf{Rule-Based Temporal Point Processes with Numerical Feature Augmentation}
Temporal Point Processes (TPPs) are widely used for modeling event sequences in various medical domains, such as disease onset prediction, progression analysis, and clinical decision support, where numerical features are measured alongside event occurrences. However, existing TPP models often struggle to incorporate domain expertise and numerical features effectively. To address this limitation, we propose the Rule-based Temporal Point Processes with numerical feature augmentation (RTPP), a novel framework that integrates temporal logic rules and continuous numerical attributes into the event intensity function. RTPP comprises three key components: basic intensity for intrinsic event likelihood, rule-based intensity for structured temporal dependencies, and numerical feature intensity for dynamic probability modulation based on time-dependent features. To effectively integrate valid temporal rules into the model, we introduce a two-phase rule mining strategy with Bayesian optimization. To evaluate our method, we establish a multi-criteria assessment framework, incorporating rule validity, model fitting, and temporal predictive accuracy. Experimental results on real-world medical datasets demonstrate that RTPP outperformsstate-of-the-art rule-based TPP models in terms of predictive performance while maintaining clinical interpretability. In case studies, the rules extracted by RTPP provide meaningful interpretations of disease progression, offering valuable contributions to medical diagnosis.
